.\" Copyright (C) 2004-2008  Anders Gavare.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products
.\"    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" 
.\" 
.\" This is the man page for GXemul. Process this file with
.\"
.\"     groff -man -Tascii gxemul.1    or    nroff -man gxemul.1
.\"
.Dd MAY 2008
.Dt GXEMUL 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gxemul
.Nd an experimental framework for full-system machine emulation
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op general options
.Op configfile
.Nm
.Op general options
.Op machine selection options
binary
.Op ...
.Nm gxemul-gui
.Op general options
.Op configfile
.Nm gxemul-gui
.Op general options
.Op machine selection options
binary
.Op ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
GXemul is a framework for full-system computer architecture emulation.
.Sh USAGE
You can start GXemul using either the gxemul or gxemul-gui binary. The
gxemul-gui binary does not require any additional options. The gxemul binary
requires either the
.Fl V
flag, to start up without an initial emulation, or other command line arguments
that define an emulation.
.Pp
An emulation can be defined using machine selection options, which create an
emulation setup consisting of a machine based on a template, or by loading
an existing emulation setup from a .gxemul configuration file.
.Pp
When creating an emulation directly on the command line, it is possible to load
kernels and other binary files (ELF, raw images, etc.) by supplying their
filenames last on the command line. The entry point of the main CPU will be
set to that of the last loaded kernel/binary.
.Sh COMMAND LINE OPTIONS
Machine selection options (for creating a simple emulation directly from
the command line, consisting of a single machine):
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl E Ar template-name
Start an emulation using machine template
.Ar template-name.
Run
.Nm
.Fl H
to get a list of available templates.
.El
.Pp
General options:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl h
Shows a detailed help message.
.It Fl H
Shows a list of available machine templates. (These can be used with the
.Fl E
option to start a template-based emulation.)
.It Fl q
Quiet mode. Suppresses the start-up text (if any), and any debug messages.
(Only applicable when starting the emulator using gxemul, not gxemul-gui.)
.It Fl V
Starts the emulator in the Paused state. This option also makes it possible
to start gxemul without an initial emulation setup. (Note that gxemul-gui can
always be started without an initial emulation.)
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
To start the GUI version of GXemul, type:
.Pp
.Dl "gxemul-gui"
.Pp
To start the text-UI version of GXemul, without any emulation setup configured,
type:
.Pp
.Dl "gxemul -V"
.Pp
If you have a .gxemul configuration file, which you want to run, type:
.Pp
.Dl "gxemul-gui nameofconfig.gxemul"
or
.Dl "gxemul nameofconfig.gxemul"
.Pp
The example above starts the emulation right away. You may add the
.Fl V
option, to start up the emulator in the Paused state instead.
.Pp
Creating simple emulation setups consisting of a single machine, is easily
done directly from the command line. E.g. to create a testmips machine, type:
.Pp
.Dl "gxemul -E testmips kernel"
.Pp
where kernel is the name of an ELF kernel that you wish to load into the
emulator. Execution will start at the kernel's entry point.
.Sh BUGS
There are many bugs, and missing features. Some of the known bugs and missing
features are mentioned in the TODO file in the GXemul source distribution, some
are marked as TODO in the source code itself.
.Pp
GXemul 0.5.x is a complete rewrite of GXemul in C++. Features that were present
in earlier versions may or may not be included in this version. (Older versions
are still available for download if you need those, of course.)
.Sh AUTHOR
GXemul is Copyright (C) 2003-2008 Anders Gavare <anders@gavare.se>
.Pp
See http://gavare.se/gxemul/ for more information. For other Copyright
messages, see the corresponding parts of the source code and/or
documentation.
